README.md, before:

# RAWShot (aka 499px)

A full-stack app, with multiple relationships and CRUD functionality, cloning key parts of the photo-sharing website 500px

Built solo, this is my fourth and final project during the Software Engineering Immersive at General Assembly.

## Goal

Build a full-stack React app using Python, Django and PostgreSQL.

### Timescale

* 8 days

### Technologies used

* Python
* Django
* PostgreSQL
* React
* rest_framework
* Axios
* SASS
* Semantic UI React
* HTTP-proxy-middleware
* JSON Web Tokens
* PyJWT
* Git, and GitHub

### Installation

* Clone or download the repo
* Install Python packages: `pipenv install --dev`
* If you don't already have it, install PostgreSQL. [Here's a good tutorial](https://flaviocopes.com/postgres-how-to-install/) covering this.
* Add a .env file in the root of the project. In it, add the following: `ENVIRONMENT=development` to ensure Django uses the correct (development) settings for the database, as per the settings.py file.
* In the project root (main directory), `pipenv shell` to activate the project's virtualenv
* Load seeds data from the multiple seeds files, using `python manage.py loaddata foldername/seeds.json` and replacing `foldername` with:
  * `photo_categories`
  * `jwt_auth`
  * `photos`
  * `comments`
* Move to the frontend: `cd frontend`
* In frontend, install dependencies: `npm i`
* `cd ..` to move back to the project root. Start the app with `python manage.py runserver`
* Navigate in your browser to `localhost:8000/`. You should see the frontend being served to the browser.

## The App: 499px

### Live version

https://rawshot-499px.herokuapp.com/photoshome

499px (aka RAWShot) attempts to clone key features and styles of the photo-sharing website 500px (https://500px.com/). In particular with 499px users can post, comment on and like photos, as well as follow photographers.

### Wireframe and Entity Relationship Diagram

To define the key features to clone from 500px, I developed the following wireframe and entity relationship diagram (ERD) - note that join table (and the many-to-many relationship) for followers is also shown in the ERD for clarity.

#### ***Wireframe***:
![Wireframe Screenshot](./Readme_Screenshots/Wireframe_Readme_Screenshot.png)

#### ***ERD***:
![ERD Screenshot](./Readme_Screenshots/ERD_Readme_Screenshot.png)

## Backend

### Models
As implied by the ERD, there are several models on the backend:
  * User
  * Photo
  * Photo_category
  * Comment

To build a follower system (the many-to-many relationship for followers shown in the ERD), the User model includes a `ManyToManyField`:
```javascript
class User(AbstractUser):
    email = models.CharField(max_length=50, unique=True)
    first_name = models.CharField(max_length=50)
    last_name = models.CharField(max_length=50)
    profile_image = models.CharField(max_length=400)
    followed_by = models.ManyToManyField(
        'self',
        related_name='following',
        symmetrical=False,
        blank=True
    )
```
There is also a many-to-many relationship between User and Photo that represents 'likes': a photo can be liked by many users, and many photos can be liked by a user. Another many-to-many relationship exists between Category and Photo. The Photo model is shown below.

```javascript
class Photo(models.Model):
    title = models.CharField(max_length = 75)
    description = models.TextField(max_length=300, blank=True)
    uploaded_at = models.DateTimeField(auto_now_add=True)
    taken_at = models.DateTimeField(null=True, blank=True)
    camera = models.CharField(max_length = 50, blank=True)
    lens = models.CharField(max_length = 50, blank=True)
    image = models.CharField(max_length=400)
    location = models.CharField(max_length = 75)
    categories = models.ManyToManyField(
        'photo_categories.PhotoCategory',
        related_name='photos'
    )
    owner = models.ForeignKey(
        'jwt_auth.User',
        related_name='created_photo',
        on_delete=models.CASCADE
    )
    liked_by = models.ManyToManyField(
        'jwt_auth.User',
        related_name='liked_photos',
        blank=True
    )
```

## Frontend

Throughout the frontend, I have attempted to reproduce key features of 500px, as well as matching the style and feel of that website.
As an example of similarity in styles, a side-by-side comparison of the homepages of 500px and 499px is shown below.

#### ***Reproducing the feel of 500px (left) with 499px (right)***
![Homepage comparison Screenshot](./Readme_Screenshots/Homepages_Readme_Screenshot.png)

The Navbar is faithfully reproduced with both styling and conditional rendering; For example, conditionally rendering a link on the logo, or not, depending on whether the user is authenticated:

```JavaScript
  <div className='logo'>
    {isAuthenticated() &&
      <Link to='/photoshome' style={{ textDecoration: 'none', color: 'black' }}>
        <p>499<sup>px</sup></p>
      </Link>
    }
    {!isAuthenticated() &&
      <p>499<sup>px</sup></p>
    }
  </div>
```

The `PhotosHome` component includes a `PhotosCarousel`. To attempt to match the style and features of this carousel, I used pure-react-carousel, which allows easy control over slide width, height and the number of slides visible (which is varied depending on the screen width, using a `MediaQuery` component). The carousel also includes only profiles that the user does not already follow, via a prop on `PhotosCarousel`, `profilesSuggestedToFollow`.

```JavaScript
<CarouselProvider
  naturalSlideWidth={600}
  naturalSlideHeight={60}
  totalSlides={profilesSuggestedToFollow.length}
  visibleSlides={visibleSlides}
>
  <div className='container'>
    <Slider >
      {
        profilesSuggestedToFollow.map((profile, index) => {
          return (
            <Slide key={index} index={index} className='slide'>
              <ProfileCard
                key={profile.id}
                created_photo={profile.created_photo}
                username={profile.username}
                profileImage={profile.profile_image}
                {...profile}
              />
            </Slide>
          )
        })
      }

    </Slider>
...
```

Within the carousel, each `ProfileCard` includes selected images from photographers who you can follow, the photographer's name and a button to follow the photographer.
![Carousel Screenshot](./Readme_Screenshots/Follow_Photographers_Screenshot.png).

Once clicked, the `follow` `Button` is replaced, via conditional rendering, with an `unfollow` `Button`, which can be clicked if the user wants to immediately undo the preceeding follow action.

```JavaScript
{!following &&
  <Button
    className='lozenge follow'  
    floated='right'
    onClick={this.handleFollowClick}
  >Follow
  </Button>
}
{following &&
  <Button
    className='lozenge unfollow'
    floated='right'
    onClick={this.handleUnfollowClick}
  >Unfollow
  </Button>
}
```

Commit message:

Update README to clearly differentiate from RAWShot README

README.md, after:

# 499px (aka RAWShot)

This app extends a previous app, which was originally built solo in 8 days as part of the Software Engineering Imersive and can be [found here](https://github.com/Simon994/RAWShot).

This project, like the original described above, is a full-stack app, with multiple relationships and CRUD functionality, cloning key parts of the photo-sharing website 500px.

The to-dos below describe new additions to the app.

## Additions (to-do / ~~done~~)

| To do       | In Progress | Done          |
| :---        | :---        | :---          |
| Add testing       | Migrate to TypeScript       | ~~Update documentation for readability~~   |
| Migrate SCSS to individual files (possibly modules later)     |         |       |
| Improve form validation   |         |       |
| Improve photo loading times   |         |       |
| Add OAuth   |         |       |

## Goal

Build a full-stack React app using Python, Django and PostgreSQL.

### Timescale

* Ongoing ([Original project](https://github.com/Simon994/RAWShot): 8 days)

### Technologies used

* Python
* Django
* PostgreSQL
* React
* rest_framework
* Axios
* SASS
* Semantic UI React
* HTTP-proxy-middleware
* JSON Web Tokens
* PyJWT
* Git, and GitHub

### Installation

* Clone or download the repo
* Install Python packages: `pipenv install --dev`
* If you don't already have it, install PostgreSQL. [Here's a good tutorial](https://flaviocopes.com/postgres-how-to-install/) covering this.
* Add a .env file in the root of the project. In it, add the following: `ENVIRONMENT=development` to ensure Django uses the correct (development) settings for the database, as per the settings.py file.
* In the project root (main directory), `pipenv shell` to activate the project's virtualenv
* Load seeds data from the multiple seeds files, using `python manage.py loaddata foldername/seeds.json` and replacing `foldername` with:
  * `photo_categories`
  * `jwt_auth`
  * `photos`
  * `comments`
* Move to the frontend: `cd frontend`
* In frontend, install dependencies: `npm i`
* `cd ..` to move back to the project root. Start the app with `python manage.py runserver`
* Navigate in your browser to `localhost:8000/`. You should see the frontend being served to the browser.

## The App: 499px

### Live version

https://rawshot-499px.herokuapp.com/photoshome

499px (aka RAWShot) attempts to clone key features and styles of the photo-sharing website 500px (https://500px.com/). In particular with 499px users can post, comment on and like photos, as well as follow photographers.

### Wireframe and Entity Relationship Diagram

To define the key features to clone from 500px, I developed the following wireframe and entity relationship diagram (ERD) - note that join table (and the many-to-many relationship) for followers is also shown in the ERD for clarity.

#### ***Wireframe***:
![Wireframe Screenshot](./Readme_Screenshots/Wireframe_Readme_Screenshot.png)

#### ***ERD***:
![ERD Screenshot](./Readme_Screenshots/ERD_Readme_Screenshot.png)

## Backend

### Models
As implied by the ERD, there are several models on the backend:
  * User
  * Photo
  * Photo_category
  * Comment

To build a follower system (the many-to-many relationship for followers shown in the ERD), the User model includes a `ManyToManyField`:
```javascript
class User(AbstractUser):
    email = models.CharField(max_length=50, unique=True)
    first_name = models.CharField(max_length=50)
    last_name = models.CharField(max_length=50)
    profile_image = models.CharField(max_length=400)
    followed_by = models.ManyToManyField(
        'self',
        related_name='following',
        symmetrical=False,
        blank=True
    )
```
There is also a many-to-many relationship between User and Photo that represents 'likes': a photo can be liked by many users, and many photos can be liked by a user. Another many-to-many relationship exists between Category and Photo. The Photo model is shown below.

```javascript
class Photo(models.Model):
    title = models.CharField(max_length = 75)
    description = models.TextField(max_length=300, blank=True)
    uploaded_at = models.DateTimeField(auto_now_add=True)
    taken_at = models.DateTimeField(null=True, blank=True)
    camera = models.CharField(max_length = 50, blank=True)
    lens = models.CharField(max_length = 50, blank=True)
    image = models.CharField(max_length=400)
    location = models.CharField(max_length = 75)
    categories = models.ManyToManyField(
        'photo_categories.PhotoCategory',
        related_name='photos'
    )
    owner = models.ForeignKey(
        'jwt_auth.User',
        related_name='created_photo',
        on_delete=models.CASCADE
    )
    liked_by = models.ManyToManyField(
        'jwt_auth.User',
        related_name='liked_photos',
        blank=True
    )
```

## Frontend

Throughout the frontend, I have attempted to reproduce key features of 500px, as well as matching the style and feel of that website.
As an example of similarity in styles, a side-by-side comparison of the homepages of 500px and 499px is shown below.

#### ***Reproducing the feel of 500px (left) with 499px (right)***
![Homepage comparison Screenshot](./Readme_Screenshots/Homepages_Readme_Screenshot.png)

The Navbar is faithfully reproduced with both styling and conditional rendering; For example, conditionally rendering a link on the logo, or not, depending on whether the user is authenticated:

```JavaScript
  <div className='logo'>
    {isAuthenticated() &&
      <Link to='/photoshome' style={{ textDecoration: 'none', color: 'black' }}>
        <p>499<sup>px</sup></p>
      </Link>
    }
    {!isAuthenticated() &&
      <p>499<sup>px</sup></p>
    }
  </div>
```

The `PhotosHome` component includes a `PhotosCarousel`. To attempt to match the style and features of this carousel, I used pure-react-carousel, which allows easy control over slide width, height and the number of slides visible (which is varied depending on the screen width, using a `MediaQuery` component). The carousel also includes only profiles that the user does not already follow, via a prop on `PhotosCarousel`, `profilesSuggestedToFollow`.

```JavaScript
<CarouselProvider
  naturalSlideWidth={600}
  naturalSlideHeight={60}
  totalSlides={profilesSuggestedToFollow.length}
  visibleSlides={visibleSlides}
>
  <div className='container'>
    <Slider >
      {
        profilesSuggestedToFollow.map((profile, index) => {
          return (
            <Slide key={index} index={index} className='slide'>
              <ProfileCard
                key={profile.id}
                created_photo={profile.created_photo}
                username={profile.username}
                profileImage={profile.profile_image}
                {...profile}
              />
            </Slide>
          )
        })
      }

    </Slider>
...
```

Within the carousel, each `ProfileCard` includes selected images from photographers who you can follow, the photographer's name and a button to follow the photographer.
![Carousel Screenshot](./Readme_Screenshots/Follow_Photographers_Screenshot.png).

Once clicked, the `follow` `Button` is replaced, via conditional rendering, with an `unfollow` `Button`, which can be clicked if the user wants to immediately undo the preceeding follow action.

```JavaScript
{!following &&
  <Button
    className='lozenge follow'  
    floated='right'
    onClick={this.handleFollowClick}
  >Follow
  </Button>
}
{following &&
  <Button
    className='lozenge unfollow'
    floated='right'
    onClick={this.handleUnfollowClick}
  >Unfollow
  </Button>
}
```
